Readme.md, before:

# XIQ - A QIX clone written quickly

This is a _very_ simple game based on the old arcade game, **Qix**.

Now, this may seem like a really small, trivial and badly written game. And it is.

*However* it is written with practically no 3rd-party library source or components. It uses a framebuffer of NxM pixels, and a sound buffer of unsigned 8-bit bytes. These are provided by SDL, as well as input.

Nothing else is used. So when a line has to be drawn, I had to write a line-draw algorithm. Want to draw a circle? Then write the algorithm to plot the points of a circle (quickly). 

When a sound effect had to be played, I had to write the sound values directly to the byte array for the sound buffer.

There is a custom **FontLibrary** as well. As well as an **ObjectFactory** and **GamePhase** management system.

Basically, I wrote this to see what I could with the following self-imposed limitations:

1. A *framebuffer* of R8G8B8A0 pixels.
1. A *sound-buffer* of unsigned 8-bit bytes.
1. An *input system* that I could poll for key down/key up.
1. One weekend.
1. And *absolutely nothing else*.

So, yeah, it's a simple, badly-drawn game with no fancy graphics or sound or music or fonts. But it has graphics and sound and music and fonts, all custom made from the ground up.

## Instructions
Move with the cursor keys or WASD.
Get hit and you lose a life. 
You have three lives.

## Build Instructions

To build the game, you will need the SDL and boost libraries. The only Boost library that I eventually used was Boost.ForEach which is a header-only part of Boost.Preprocessor and TODO remove this depedancy. I only used it because it was there are at the time.

To build for windows, you will also need at least DirectX 9.0 SDK.

Projects for Code::Blocks and Visual Studio 2013 are included.

The game builds and runs on Linux, OS/X and Windows.

## TODO

CMake support.

Commit message:

Changed to 32-bit color value from SDL2

Readme.md, after:

# XIQ - A QIX clone written quickly

This is a _very_ simple game based on the old arcade game, **Qix**.

Now, this may seem like a really small, trivial and badly written game. And it is.

*However* it is written with practically no 3rd-party library source or components. It uses a framebuffer of NxM pixels, and a sound buffer of unsigned 8-bit bytes. These are provided by SDL, as well as input.

Nothing else is used. So when a line has to be drawn, I had to write a line-draw algorithm. Want to draw a circle? Then write the algorithm to plot the points of a circle (quickly). 

When a sound effect had to be played, I had to write the sound values directly to the byte array for the sound buffer.

There is a custom **FontLibrary** as well. As well as an **ObjectFactory** and **GamePhase** management system.

Basically, I wrote this to see what I could with the following self-imposed limitations:

1. A *framebuffer* of R8G8B8A0 pixels.
1. A *sound-buffer* of unsigned 8-bit bytes.
1. An *input system* that I could poll for key down/key up.
1. One weekend.
1. And *absolutely nothing else*.

So, yeah, it's a simple, badly-drawn game with no fancy graphics or sound or music or fonts. But it has graphics and sound and music and fonts, all custom made from the ground up.

## Instructions
Move with the cursor keys or WASD.
Get hit and you lose a life. 
You have three lives.

Yes, I know there's a problem with the game area being half the screen. That's a consequence of the 23-minute port from SDL1 to SDL2 and can't see much point fixing it.

## Build Instructions

To build the game, you will need the SDL and boost libraries. The only Boost library that I eventually used was Boost.ForEach which is a header-only part of Boost.Preprocessor and TODO remove this depedancy. I only used it because it was there are at the time.

To build for windows, you will also need at least DirectX 9.0 SDK.

Projects for Code::Blocks and Visual Studio 2013 are included.

The game builds and runs on Linux, OS/X and Windows.

## TODO

CMake support.
